README — # BIOL 462 Manuscript: A Decade of Intertidal Community Dynamics in Alaska's Kachemak Bay
==================================================================================================
This README explains:
How to interpret the figures and output files generated by the R script
   (Rushton_KBAY_Intertidal_Community_Analysis.R)

Study Region
============
This study encompassed six sites within outer KBAY, connected to the GOA by the Lower Cook Inlet.
Port Graham and Outside Beach, the two southernmost sites, lie in the path of the inflowing Alaska Coastal Current (ACC). 
Near Elephant and Cohen Island, a current reversal occurs due to estuarine circulation between the ACC and glacial meltwater. 
The mixed water mass flows out of KBAY past Bishop’s Beach and Bluff Point, the two northern sites. 
 
Data Collection
===============
The nearshore component of the Exxon Valdez oil spill long-term monitoring by the Gulf Watch Alaska 
program includes multiple broader regions within the northern GOA. Motile invertebrate counts, along 
with sessile invertebrate and seaweed percent cover, were collected in quadrats along fixed transects 
from 2012 to 2022. Intertidal temperature was recorded continuously using HOBO V2 loggers. 
For this study, only low-stratum motile invertebrate counts and temperature were considered when the logger 
was submerged in KBAY on sampling dates. 


**Data and Statistical Analysis**
The dataset was retrieved from the Gulf of Alaska (GOA) data portal. 
All statistical analyses were performed in R v1.1.403 (R Core Team, 2023) using the packages 
vegan (Oksanen et al., 2022), lme4 (Bates et al., 2015), tidyverse (Wickham et al., 2019), and
lubridate (Grolemund & Wickham, 2011). 

Diversity Metrics 
=================
Temporal and spatial changes in community diversity 
per site-year were quantified using species richness and the Shannon-Weiner index. 

Community Composition Analysis
==============================
Differences in community structure between site-years were addressed by calculating Bray-Curtis 
dissimilarity and visualized using non-metric multidimensional scaling (nMDS) with the ggplot2 and vegan packages. 
These differences were tested using analysis of similarities (ANOSIM), followed by similarity percentages (SIMPER) 
to identify which taxa contributed most to the observed differences between sites. 

Temperature Effects on Species Richness
=======================================
To test the hypothesis that temperature affects community structure, the effect of temperature on 
species richness was evaluated with a general linear mixed model (GLMM) in the lme4 package.  
The site was included as a random effect to account for the variation across sites.  
